	
The Spectacular Acrobatacular Circus was coming to Eldervale, and Jin, Arya, and Orik had been given permission to go. They were excited to see the acrobats and their amazing feats of strength and skill. Jin was especially eager to see the circus, because he was a bit of an acrobat himself. He loved to perform backflips, swing from tree branches, and climb the castle walls. He couldn’t wait to see the circus performers on the trapeze, the high wire, and the aerial silks. Perhaps he would find some inspiration for new moves!
The day of the circus finally arrived. Queen Lyra sent the three youngsters off to the circus with enough money to purchase their tickets and one treat to share. “Enjoy! And be safe,” she said, waving goodbye.
“Thank you, Mom!” Orik said.
“Thank you!” Jin and Arya echoed. The three headed for Eldervale town square, where the huge red and white circus tent was set up. As they walked, they shared what they were most excited to see. 
“I want to see the tightrope walkers,” said Arya.
“I’m excited to see the jugglers,” said Orik.
“I can’t wait to see ALL of it!” Jin exclaimed. He sprang forward onto his hands and completed a front flip. The three friends laughed. Soon, they arrived at the circus. A long line had formed at the ticket booth. “Ugh!” said Jin. “It’ll take us forever to get inside.” They took their places at the back of the line. “Can’t this go any faster?” Jin asked.
“It’s moving,” said Arya. “We’ll just have to be patient.” After several more minutes, they had nearly reached the front of the line, when two kids they didn’t recognize cut in front of them.
“Hey!” Jin shouted. “What do you think you’re doing? We were here first.”
Orik put his hand on Jin’s arm. “Just calm down.” Orik then turned his attention to the kids. “We’ve all been waiting our turn,” he said calmly but firmly. The two line-cutters looked at each other, then at Orik, Jin, and Arya. 
“Fine, whatever,” one said, as they left to go to the back of line.
“How rude!”  Jin said, fuming. “Can you believe them?”
“Yeah, that was rude,” agreed Arya. “But don’t let it get to you! We’re here to enjoy the circus, remember?” Jin nodded, but still felt angry. 
“Next!” called the ticket seller. Jin, Orik, and Arya purchased three tickets and went inside. The stage was lit with colorful lights and a tightrope was stretched above it. A trapeze and bright silk ropes hung from scaffolding at the top of the tent. 
“Ooh!” squealed Arya. “It’s so pretty!”
“Yeah!” Jin and Orik agreed in unison.
“Let’s go pick out our snack before it starts,” Orik suggested. The three headed for the concession stand, where they examined the delicious-looking sweet treats displayed on the counter. Though it was a hard choice, they finally decided on cotton-candy. Arya paid the seller, and received a bag filled with fluffy yellow, pink, and blue candy. Once they had their treat, they took their seats to wait for the show to begin. After a few minutes, the lights dimmed then brightened again to reveal performers on the stage, arranged in an elaborate formation. Some of the acrobats stood on each others’ shoulders, while others hung from the hoops and scarves dangling from the ceiling. They began performing amazing acrobatic feats, tumbling, flipping, and twirling all across the tent! The crowd applauded and cheered, and Jin couldn’t help but clap and whistle for the amazing tricks he was seeing. 
Jin, Orik, and Arya watched in awe as the trapeze artists took the stage next. They swung high above the crowds, jumping from trapeze to trapeze. As they watched the spectacle, Jin, Orik, and Arya shared the cotton candy, munching on it until there was only a small piece left. Orik, without thinking, took the last of it and put it in his mouth. Jin reached for the cotton candy, only to find it gone.
“Orik! You took the last of the cotton candy!” Jin snapped.
“Oops! Sorry, Jin,” Orik responded. “I didn’t mean to take the last bit without sharing it.”
 “It’s fine,” Jin huffed, still annoyed. Just then, a juggler came onto the stage. She was tossing rainbow-colored balls in the air -- first five, then six, then seven, eight, nine, ten! Jin, Orik, and Arya stared in amazement. Then, the juggler put the rainbow balls down and picked up five clubs that were on fire.
“Is she going to juggle with fire?” Jin asked in disbelief. Just then, a tall bear who had come in late took his seat in the row in front of them, blocking Jin’s view of the stage. He couldn’t see the juggler and her fiery clubs. 
Jin felt his face growing hot. How dare this person block his view! “AGH!” he yelled. “That’s it!” He stood up from his seat and stormed off. Orik and Arya looked at him in surprise.
“Jin, come back!” Orik  called.
“I’ll go find him,” Arya said to Orik. “Stay here so you don’t miss the show, too.” Arya made her way out of the circus tent and found Jin outside, pacing angrily. 
“Jin,” Arya said to him. “What’s going on?”
Jin stopped his pacing and looked at Arya. “It’s just --” he began. He clenched his hands into fists and held them up. “It’s just I get so angry sometimes. It was one thing after another today, and I couldn’t take it anymore. I felt so mad in there!” Arya nodded sympathetically. “Arya, how do you always stay so calm? You never get angry!”
“Well, I actually do get angry,” Arya said. Jin raised his eyebrows in surprise. “Yeah, in fact I got angry last week at school when Lordis and Wendy didn’t pick me to be in their study group. I have a little trick, though, that helps me stay in control. When I feel really mad, I go to a quiet place and breathe deeply while counting to ten. Or, if I can’t go somewhere quiet, I breathe and count in place. It helped me calm down last week, and I was able to gently explain to my friends that it hurt when they left me out.”
“Hm,” said Jin. “Breathe and count?”
“Yes,” said Arya. “It’s okay to feel angry, but don’t let it take control of you and your temper. After all, we can’t always control what happens to us. It’s not good to go through life losing our temper because of things we can’t control., or letting anger make us unkind to others.”
Jin looked down for a moment before speaking. You’re right. I want to be in control of my anger, and not let it control me .”
“Come on, let’s go back in before we miss the aerial dancers,” said Arya, smiling encouragingly. Jin and Arya returned to the circus tent. “Look,” Arya said. “I’m tall enough that I can see over the person in front of you. Why don’t we switch seats?”
“Oh! Yeah!” said Jin, wishing he’d thought of that earlier instead of losing his temper. “Thanks, Arya,” he added. “For everything.” Arya smiled at her fiery friend.  
Jin, Arya, and Orik watched the rest of the performance: aerial dancers performed feats of strength on the silk ropes, acrobats cartwheeled and flipped onto trampolines, and a silly clown came out and sprayed the audience with confetti. The show ended, and everyone applauded as the performers took their bows. Behind Jin, Arya, and Orik, several boisterous kids were pretending to take bows, too. One girl bowed too far forward and spilled her popcorn onto Jin, who was seated in front of her.
“You’ve got to be kidding me,” said Jin to himself, starting to seethe. Arya tapped him on the shoulder, and gave him a wink. “Right,” said Jin. He took several deep, slow breaths as he counted to ten in his mind. He felt calmer, and in control. It felt good to brush the annoyance aside without losing his temper. 
The performers took their final bow, and Jin, Arya, and Orik headed home from the circus. On the way back to Eldervale Castle, they talked about all their favorite performances from the event.
“I loved the acrobatic dancers. I can’t wait to try some of those new moves,” said Jin.
“I thought the clown was really funny,” said Arya. “Maybe I’ll try some of HIS moves on you guys,” she teased. 
“I can’t wait to juggle with fire,” said Orik. Jin and Arya looked at Orik, then everyone burst into laughter. 
“Yeah, right! Maybe start with regular clubs,” giggled Arya. 
Just as their laughter began to die down, Jin cleared his throat. “Uh, guys?” he began. “I’m sorry I was impatient today. Thanks for helping me learn to control my temper. That’s actually the main skill from today that I want to practice.” 
“You’re welcome, Jin,” said Arya. 
“I know it’s not easy, Jin, but I have no doubt that you have it in you, ” Orik added as Eldervale Castle came into view. The three friends raced home, excited to tell everyone about all the neat things they had seen and learned at the Spectacular Acrobatacular Circus.

It was an unusually warm summer afternoon in Aquapolis. Friends David, Mia, and Lucy were hanging out in Mia’s workshop. Mia was tinkering with an odd-looking contraption. (describe device here)
“The Fetcher is almost done!” said Mia. “Will you hand me that wrench on the table?” She asked David. 
“Here you go,” he said. “Hey, what’s a Fetcher again?”
	“It’s a machine I invented that will go get things for you,” said Mia. “Isn’t that fun?” Mia tightened several bolts on her contraption. “There,” she said. “Let’s test it.” Mia pressed several buttons on the machine, set it on the floor, and it began to roll across the room.
	“Ooh!” squealed Lucy excitedly. “It looks like it’s working.” The Fetcher unfolded a metal arm and picked up David’s jacket, which was slung across a chair. It rolled back to Mia and deposited the jacket in Mia’s outstretched hands. 
	“Here you go,” she said, handing it to David. “Looks like everything is in working order.”
	“No way!” he exclaimed. “Cool! I bet I can do it faster, though. Watch me.” David dashed across the room and grabbed a pair of safety glasses off a workbench, dashed back, and handed them to Mia. “See?” he smirked. “Your robot can’t beat me!”
Mia chuckled, “It’s not a competition, David!” She wiped beads of sweat from her forehead. “It sure is hot today,” she said. 
“Let’s go swimming!” exclaimed Lucy. 
“Yeah!” agreed Mia and David in unison. Mia set the Fetcher on the table and put her tools back in the toolbox. Then, the three friends set off for the pond.
“I’ll race you there!” said David, taking off running. “Last one to the pond is a rotten egg!” he called over his shoulder. 
“It’s too hot to race!” called Lucy after David, but he had already disappeared around a corner. When Lucy and Mia caught up to David at the pond, they found him lounging by the edge.
“I’ve been here for ages,” he said. “I guess you both are rotten eggs!”
“Come on, let’s swim,” said Mia. The friends jumped into the cool water and splashed around, enjoying the relief from the summer heat.
“Ahh,” said Lucy. “This feels so good!”
“Hey!” said David. “Let’s see who can hold their breath the longest. Ready, set, go!” David ducked his head under the water. Lucy and Mia looked at each other and then quickly ducked their heads under, too. After several seconds, Lucy popped her head back up -- she had run out of breath. Then a couple of seconds later, Mia emerged from the water. Finally, David came up from the pond. 
“Ha!” he said, looking at his friends. “I win!” 


Every other Saturday at Eldervale Castle was cleaning day. All the castle staff, as well as the Brighthands, Arya, and Jin, pitched in to make the castle sparkling clean. King Aldrick and Queen Lyra would divide up all the different tasks so that with everyone’s help, the floors would be swept and washed, the kitchen cleaned, the bathrooms scrubbed, the furniture dusted, and the rooms tidied. 
On this particular cleaning day, Arya, Orik, and Jin were given a list of chores to complete: clean  bedrooms, dust the living room, mop the dining room, and sweep the castle steps.
“Let’s divide them up so that each person cleans their own room, and then has one other chore to complete,” suggested Jin. 
“Yeah,” Arya agreed  “That way we can finish more quickly. I’m going to rearrange all my books in alphabetical order once I’m done with my tasks.”
“And when I’m done with my chores, I’m going to play the new game I got for my birthday!” exclaimed Orik. “Who wants to join?”
“I’ll play with you,” said Jin. “It looks like a really fun game.” 
“Okay,” Arya said. “I’ll clean my room and mop the dining room,”
“I’ll clean my room and take the castle steps,” said Orik.
“And that leaves the dusting for me,” Jin added. “Great! Let’s get to work.” The three set off to start their tasks. Arya tidied her room, put her art supplies away, and began sweeping the floor. Camille joined her and picked up small scraps of paper and twine from past art projects. Arya smiled at Camille and hummed to herself as she worked. Before she knew it, her room was spic and span. She started towards the castle dining room to complete her mopping, but on her way past Orik’s room, she noticed that Orik and Jin were playing a board game with colorful game pieces and shiny pretend coins. 
“Knock, knock! Shouldn’t you two be cleaning?” She asked, noticing that Orik’s room was still quite messy. 
“Oh, yeah,” said Orik. “I started to clean but then I found the new game…”
“We thought we’d just play for a few minutes,” added Jin. “We’re right in the middle of a game. Do you think you could dust for me, Arya? Just this once? I’ll help Orik clean his room and that way we’ll make up for lost time.
“Hmm, alright, ” said Arya. “Just this once! But don’t forget to do your other chores!” Arya bustled off to her next task. She mopped the dining room until the floor gleamed, and then set about dusting the living room with a feather duster. Camille fluttered around the dining room, helpfully knocking dust down with her wings. 
After dusting all the furnishings and window sills, Arya wiped her brow. “Phew!” she said. “Thanks for your help, Camille.” Camille chirped at Arya cheerfully. Arya put the mop and feather duster away in the cleaning supply closet, and headed back to her room. “Finally, I can organize my books,” she thought to herself happily. However, as she passed back by Orik’s room again, she noticed that the two boys were still in there playing their game.  
“Uh, guys?” she said hesitantly. “I finished the mopping and dusting, but there is still sweeping to do, not to mention your rooms.” Orik and Jin looked up at her.
“Yes! We’ll get to it. We’re almost finished with our game,” said Jin.
“But it’s getting kind of late,” Arya said. Orik looked concerned.
“We do need to clean our rooms...Arya, would you sweep the steps for me? I’ll pay you back next time and do your chore!” 
Arya hesitated for a moment. She knew Orik and Jin were being irresponsible by waiting to do their chores, and didn’t want to encourage that behavior. But she didn’t want to upset them, so she decided to take on the task. 
“Sure,” she said, heading back to the supply closet to find a broom. Arya selected a straw broom and went out to the castle steps where she swept the dirt away. She thought about Jin and Orik playing their game as she swept, and began to feel a little angry. "Why do I need to work, while they get to have fun?" she thought to herself. "It isn't fair! I want to have fun too!" After all, it was their chores that she was completing, and she was anxious to get to her books. She was nearly finished with the steps when King Aldrick popped his head out of the door to talk to her. 
“Arya,” he said. “You’re doing a great job. And the dining room looks great! But where are Orik and Jin? I asked them to help with these chores, too.”
“Oh, uh…” Arya paused. “They’re in Orik’s room, playing the new game he got for his birthday.” 
King Aldrick shook his head. “And they’re letting you do their work for them? I’m going to go have a talk with those two. They ought to know better.” Arya imagined him shaping Orik and Jin up very quickly with a stern talking-to. That would definitely get them working on their chores! But, she pondered, what if they tried to pawn their chores off on her next cleaning day, too, because she was too nice to say “no?” Arya decided she needed to confront Orik and Jin herself. 
“King Aldrick?” Arya asked, just as he was turning to leave. The king paused, waiting for her to speak. “Would you let me speak to them? I think I need to stand up for myself.”
King Aldrick smiled at her. “Of course, Arya,” he said. Arya finished sweeping the last two steps, then put the broom back. She headed over to Orik’s room, taking a deep breath as she walked. She was nervous about confronting Orik and Jin, but knew that, as her friends, they would want to know how she felt. She paused at Orik’s bedroom door.
“Orik? Jin?” she said timidly. The boys looked up from the game that they were still playing. Arya cleared her throat. “I should have spoken up sooner, but I don’t think it’s fair for me to do all the chores. After all, I have fun things I want to do, too. I don’t mind helping you guys out sometimes, but  feel like you guys took advantage of my kindness. I really think you need to take a break from your game and do your chores.”
After Arya finished speaking, Orik and Jin blinked. They realized that they’d pushed their responsibilities onto their friend. “Oh...yeah,” said Orik. 
“You’re right, Arya,” said Jin. “I’m sorry!”
“I am, too,” Orik added. “Will you forgive us? Next time we won’t push our chores off onto you.”
“I forgive you,” Arya said, relieved that she had finally spoken what she was feeling. “I’m going to go water my plants in the garden while the sun is still up,” she added.
“And we’ll get to cleaning!” said Orik, as he and Jin jumped to their feet. The three parted ways, Orik and Jin to clean their rooms, and Arya to the garden, where she carefully watered each of her plants. When she was satisfied that everything had been cared for, she returned to her room. 
“I’ll finally get to alphabetize my books,” she thought. “It will be so nice to have them organized.” When she got back to her room, though, she found that all the books were already in alphabetical order! Adventure of the Ancient Mummy was before Below the Blue Oceans and The Train to Saol came after Lucky Duck. Arya’s eyes lit up. “Who did this?” she asked herself. 
Just then she felt a small tap on her shoulder. Camille had flown into her room through the open door and landed on her. Camille chirped, motioning to the doorway with her tiny head. Arya turned around to see Orik and Jin standing there with big smiles on their faces. 
“Surprise!” they chorused. 
“We wanted to pay you back and help you with something, and say sorry for pressuring you into doing our chores today,” explained Jin.
“We hope it’s right!” Orik added.
“It’s perfect,” said Arya. “Thank you both.” She enfolded her friends in a hug while Camille flew around them in a large circle. Arya was very pleased with her new, organized book system. She was also very proud inside for having spoken up.
“Hey,” she said. “Now that all the chores are finished, want to play a game?” 
“Yeah!” said Orik. “How about Chinese Checkers? I know you like that one, Arya.” Arya, Orik, and Jin happily headed off to start their game, feeling very content in knowing that all their chores were done.


It was the day before the Annual Eldervale Dash. Every spring, this event brought crowds of runners and spectators from all over Meridian to Eldervale Castle. The Dash included music, festivities, and tasty food, but the highlight of the day was the footrace. Anybody over the age of 10 could compete in the race, and people across Meridian looked forward to the event each year.
Jin had already run in the Dash for two years, and had won both times. He looked forward to this year’s race, and he was confident he would win again and earn the beautiful, shiny gold medal that King Aldrick awarded to each year’s winner. Jin replayed last year’s race in his mind, especially that glorious last moment where he raced past the first place runner to cross the finish line first. He remembered the cheering crowds, the high-fives, and of course, receiving the coveted winner’s medal. 
“I can’t wait for tomorrow,” Jin sighed happily to himself as he wandered through the castle grounds. The Brighthands and the castle staff were setting up tents and a stage, hanging banners, and preparing tasty food for the Dash. King Aldrick and Mr. Myran were stringing up the finish line tape when Jin approached them. “I can’t wait to be the first through the finish line tomorrow!” he exclaimed confidently.
“Now, Jin,” King Aldrick said. “It’s great to be excited, and I hope you do very well this year. But don’t count your chickens before they hatch!”
“Chickens?” Jin asked, puzzled. 
“What I mean is, don’t assume you’ll win, just because you did in past years,” King Aldrick explained.
“Oh, right,” said Jin, pretending to agree. But inside, he still knew he would win. He could see it in his mind and could feel the thrill of coming in first place. 
That night, Jin went to bed excited for the next day. He knew he needed to rest, so he took several deep breaths and lulled himself to sleep by imagining himself wearing the gold medal at the Eldervale Dash. 
The next morning, Jin awoke and rushed to get ready for the big day. The castle was bustling with last minute preparations. Around midday, runners and spectators began showing up. A band struck up a cheerful tune as the people danced, enjoyed their food, and talked and laughed with each other. But Jin didn’t partake in any of this. He paced around the event, eager for the race to begin. His feet were ready to run, and he was ready to win! 
Finally, it was time for the footrace. All the runners lined up at the start, and King Aldrick held up a large yellow flag.“Three, two, one, GO!” he yelled, waving the flag up and down. The runners took off. Jin easily kept up with the front of the pack, while some others fell behind. The race course took the runners out of the castle gate, through the town square, and back again. Jin and the other contestants ran and ran as onlookers cheered and waved. 
“Yes!” Jin panted as he saw the castle gate on his return from town. He was in first place, and he knew victory was just a few moments away. He ran toward the finish line tape, and put his hands into the air to cross the line in winner’s style. But just then, Jeremy sprinted past him to break across the finish line first. 
“I won!” Jeremy exclaimed, jumping for joy and pumping the air with his fist. Jin slowed his running and came to a stop. He felt like the air had been knocked out of his lungs. Did Jeremy really just beat him? Jin saw the crowd cheering for Jeremy and high-fiving him. He couldn’t believe it. Grandmother Elga came over to Jin, offering him a hug.
“Good Job, Jin!” said Grandmother Elga. “You got second place -- that’s nothing to scoff at.” 
“Humph!” said Jin, walking off without thanking her. “Jeremy? I can’t believe it,” he muttered to himself. He watched as the other runners finished the race and gathered around the finish line. Jeremy climbed up onto the stage, where King Aldrick was waiting with the gold medal. The crowd was clapping and cheering. “No way,” Jin thought to himself as he folded his arms across his chest. “I’m not clapping for him.” 
Jin noticed King Aldrick eying him from the stage, but he kept his arms folded and looked away. He made a point of avoiding Jeremy when he came down from the stage wearing the gold medal. “I’m not speaking to him,” Jin thought. “He robbed me of first place!”
Just then, Jin noticed Mimi, another runner from the race. She stood off to the side of the crowd with her arms crossed and an angry expression on her face. She didn’t seem to be cheering for Jeremy either. Jin looked at her for a moment. She sure seemed out of place in the cheering, smiling crowd. Jin looked down at his own folded arms. 
“I wonder if I look like that?” he thought. He slowly uncrossed his arms. “I was so happy when everyone cheered for me last year. Maybe I should cheer for Jeremy, even though he beat me,” mused Jin. “I guess I’m spoiling the fun of the Eldervale Dash with my bad attitude.”
Jin had an idea. He made his way through the crowds to where Mimi was sulking. “Mimi!” he said. “Come on, let’s go congratulate Jeremy.”
“But I wanted to win!” Mimi whined. 
“I know,” said Jin with a sigh. “I did, too. We both tried our best, though. I guess sometimes, somebody else just runs faster. Hey, what if we train together before next year’s Dash?”
Mimi’s face softened. “That would be neat,” she said. 
“Yeah, and let’s go cheer for Jeremy. We should support him,” Jin added.
“I suppose you’re right. I’d want Jeremy to cheer for me if I won,” Mimi said. The two found Jeremy and gave him high-fives. 
“Congrats, Jeremy,” said Mimi.
“Yeah, congratulations. You ran a good race,” added Jin. 
Jeremy smiled at them. “Thanks, you guys! You ran really well, too.” Jin and Mimi smiled at Jeremy, and then at each other.
“That felt good,” said Mimi, as they walked away. 
“Yeah,” Jin agreed. He was still upset that he had lost, and felt a bit foolish for being so certain of his win. But he felt happy for Jeremy, remembering how fun it had been to win the last two years. “Hey Mimi,” he said. “Do you want to go play ring toss?” Jin and Mimi headed toward the ring toss tent, when Jin spotted Grandmother Elga. Jin paused. “Mimi, I need to go do something,” he said. “I’ll meet you at the ring toss in a minute.”
Jin ran up to Grandmother Elga, who was speaking with a friend. He waited patiently for her attention, then spoke up. “Grandmother Elga, I am sorry for being rude and disrespectful earlier.” he said, hanging his head. “I was...well, I am disappointed that I lost the race. Will you forgive me?”
“I forgive you, Jin,” she said, folding him into an embrace. “It’s okay to feel disappointed, but I think you’re making the right choice now to have a better attitude.”
“Thank you, Grandmother Elga,” Jin replied. He hugged her back, then scampered off to meet Mimi. Jin spent the rest of the day enjoying the wonderful games and tasty food. He hadn’t forgotten about the race, but he felt better and better about it as the day went on. After all, he reasoned, he had done his best.
That evening, after the crowds had all left, the tents had been taken down, and the castle grounds had been swept, King Aldrick found Jin standing on the castle wall looking over Eldervale. 
“Jin, I have something for you,” King Aldrick said, holding out a large shiny medal. Jin’s eyes widened. 
“King Aldrick, what is this for? I lost today at the Dash,” Jin said.
“I know, Jin,” King Aldrick smiled. “This is a prize for good sportsmanship. I saw how you decided to fix your behavior and have a good attitude after the race today. A good competitor congratulates the winner, even though he or she is upset about losing. I am proud of the choice you made.” 
Jin took the medal from King Aldrick, and immediately realized that this was no ordinary medal. Upon further examination, he saw that the gold was actually gold foil, which he slowly peeled back to reveal a flat, chocolate candy in the shape of a medal. “Thank you, King Aldrick!” he said, hugging the wise king. Jin felt warm inside from King Aldrick’s praise, and was happy he hadn’t spent the whole day of the Eldervale Dash feeling angry. Later that night, at bedtime, he placed the chocolate “medal” on the table next to his bed. He smiled at it, then fell into a deep sleep, dreaming of the chocolate he would enjoy tomorrow. 

	It was the day Orik’s class had been preparing for all month: the Eldervale Elementary Science Fair. Each student had conducted a science experiment and created a poster to show the results to their teachers and classmates, with judges awarding ribbons to the best projects in each class. Orik was very excited to show his project to everyone: a solar oven he had built using bright foil to concentrate the sun’s rays and cook muffins. He displayed his oven and some sun-cooked muffins in front of a colorful poster recording his process and results. 
	Orik’s classmates set up their projects, too. Carl had raised bean sprouts using varying amounts of sunlight and water, Mimi had built a launcher to test paper airplane shapes, and Sammie had grown beautiful crystals out of sugar water. But the project that was receiving the most attention, based on the large crowd gathering around it, was Sid’s.
	“What’s your science project, Sid?” Orik asked as he approached his friend’s table, curious to see what the buzz was about. 
	“It’s a model train that floats over its tracks using magnets,” she explained. Orik’s mouth fell open. The train was amazing! Sid gave the train a push, and its tiny red cars glided across its track, hovering above them using magnetic force. 
“It’s so cool!” Orik exclaimed. “Nice work, Sid.”
“Thanks, Orik,” Sid beamed. Orik returned to his project station, ready to explain his own project to the science fair judges and his schoolmates. At 9:00 am on the dot, Headmistress Penny opened the auditorium doors, indicating that the Science Fair had officially begun. Teachers and students from the whole school began streaming in to see the projects. Orik happily talked about his solar oven and handed out muffin samples. Out of the corner of his eye, though, he could still see Sid’s magnetic train. It was receiving attention from almost every person in the room. It’s popularity didn’t surprise Orik one bit, as it looked like so much fun to operate. He wanted so badly to have a turn to play with it! When Sid left the room for a water break, Orik’s curiosity got the best of him.
“I’ll just try Sid’s train out really quickly,” he thought to himself. He walked to her station and gave the train a push. It slid across its tracks. “Neat!” thought Orik. “I wonder if it can go faster?” He pushed the train harder and harder, watching it zip back and forth. 
Suddenly, with a hard push, the train fell off its tracks and onto the floor, where it broke into three pieces. Orik froze. “I ruined it!” he thought to himself. “I can’t let Sid know I broke her project. Not only will she be mad at me, but I’ll get in trouble, too!” Panicked, Orik quickly returned to his own station and pretended nothing had happened. His heart was pounding inside his chest. 
	“Oh no!” Sid exclaimed when she returned to find her project in pieces. “My project is broken!” she wailed. Orik’s teacher, Ms. Tabitha, as well as a few other Science Fair judges,  came rushing over to see what the commotion was. “Somebody broke my train,” Sid explained, trying to hold back tears. Other curious students began to gather around. 
	“This looks like an accident,” Ms. Tabitha said. “Did somebody accidentally break Sid’s project?” she gently asked the gathered students. “We need to make it up to Sid and help her repair her train.” Nobody spoke. 
“Did anyone see what happened?” Sid asked, with tears in her eyes. Several students shook their heads. Orik opened his mouth to confess, but fear gripped him, so he closed it and shook his head no. 
Orik felt a twinge in his conscience. “That was a lie,” he thought to himself. “But just a small lie,” he reasoned. “I don’t want Sid to stop liking me, so I better just keep quiet.”
Ms. Tabitha put her arm around Sid. “I’m sorry, Sid. We’ll get to the bottom of this. But in the meantime, let’s see if we can repair your project.” Sid sniffled and nodded.
“Wait a minute,” said Mimi. “I saw a student I didn’t recognize walking around and looking at all the science projects, even touching some. Maybe he did it!”
“Yeah,” chimed in Carl. “I noticed him, too. I think he’s the new boy in the grade above us. He came through here earlier and could have broken Sid’s project while no one was looking!” Several other students nodded or spoke up in agreement.
“Hm,” mused Ms. Tabitha. “Let’s not jump to conclusions, students. Come on, Sid, let’s fix your project,” she smiled. The gathered students slowly returned to their own projects , and Sid and Ms. Tabitha set about repairing the train.
Orik returned to his science project, but he couldn’t stop thinking about the broken train and the lie he had told. “It was just a small one,” he told himself again. “And besides, Sid and Ms. Tabitha are fixing the train.” But as the morning went on at the Science Fair, Orik realized that a rumor was starting to spread about Sid’s train. Students were saying that the new boy from the class above him had purposefully broken it. It had become the talk of the school!
“My sister is in his class,” Sammie said to Orik and several other classmates. “And she told me he’s going to get in trouble!” 
Orik felt his stomach lurch at this news. “My lie is going to get someone else in trouble,” he thought. He knew he had to make it right. Just then, he noticed the accused student near the door to the auditorium. Ms. Tabitha and Headmistress Penny were talking to him. Orik rushed over to them.
“I did it!” he exclaimed. “I broke the train!” Ms. Tabitha, Ms. Penny, and the new boy all looked at him in surprise. “I broke Sid’s train, and then lied about it because I was scared,” he explained. “He didn’t do it,” said Orik, pointing to the new student.
“Orik,” said Ms. Tabitha gravely. “This is Jeremy. Jeremy, this is Orik.” 
Orik took a deep breath. “Jeremy, I’m sorry people were blaming you for breaking Sid’s train. I should have confessed right away and those rumors would never have started.” 
Jeremy’s face scrunched up in confusion for a moment. “Oh,” he said. “So that’s how all
this started. I didn’t know why people were blaming me for something I didn’t do.”
“Yes,” said Orik. “I lied because I was scared, and my lie grew into a terrible rumor about you. I will talk to everyone and tell them that I broke the train, not you. Will you accept my apology?”
Jeremy hesitated for a moment. “Yes,” he said. “Thank you for setting the record straight. This is my first week at this school, and I don’t want to scare away any friends.”
  Orik paused for a moment until a thought entered his mind. “Well, I know this is an unusual way to start a friendship, but I was just thinking -- maybe I could be your friend?” he asked shyly. 
 Jeremy’s face brightened. “Yeah, it is pretty unusual,” he said with a laugh. “But, hey, why not?! Nice to meet you, Orik.”
“It’s nice to meet you, too, Jeremy,” Orik responded before turning to face his teacher and his headmistress.. “Ms. Tabitha, Headmistress Penny -- there is someone else I need to apologize to. Please excuse me.” Waving goodbye to his new friend Jeremy, Orik went to find Sid.  
Orik told Sid the whole story, confessing how he had lied to avoid getting in trouble and losing her trust. “Orik, I would have understood if you had just explained what happened!” Sid said. Orik realized that his little lie had caused a lot of damage, both to his friendship with Sid,  and to Jeremy’s reputation.
“I’m sorry, Sid.” Orik said. “Will you forgive me?”
Sid looked at her hands for a moment, then responded. “Orik, I’m hurt that you didn’t tell me the truth about breaking my train. I thought somebody had done it on purpose! I never expected that you would lie to me,” she sighed. “But, I don’t want this to hurt our friendship. I’m glad you came to tell me the truth and apologize. I forgive you, Orik.” 
Orik smiled widely. He felt as if a weight had lifted off his shoulders. “Can I help you fix your train?” he asked Sid. 
“Look, it’s already working again,” she smiled. Orik watched as she operated the shiny train. 
	“You really made a great project,” said Orik. 
Just then, Headmistress Penny’s voice rang out. “Attention all students, it is time for the Eldervale Elementary Science Fair Award Ceremony!” Orik hurried back to his solar oven project, waiting to hear the results. Headmistress Penny read out the names and projects of the winners in each class. When she got to Orik’s class, she said, “The first place ribbon for Ms. Tabitha’s class goes to...Sid, and her magnetic train project!” Orik and his classmates clapped and cheered as Sid received her golden ribbon. “And to the rest of Ms. Tabitha’s class,” continued Ms. Penny. “Congratulations for creating wonderful and interesting projects. You certainly made it difficult for our judges.”
	Orik felt a little disappointed that he had not won the golden ribbon, but he was happy for Sid. Even more than that, he was happy that she had forgiven him for breaking her project and lying about it. He thought back on the whole morning, and about how bad he had felt after being dishonest. And now, because he had done the right thing, he had repaired his friendship with Sid, and even made a new friend in Jeremy. 
	Orik walked over to Sid’s station and gave her a high-five. “Congratulations, Sid!” he said. 
	“Thank you, Orik!” she replied. “Hey, want to sit with me at lunch?” 
	“Sure!” responded Orik. “And let’s invite the new student, too. His name is Jeremy.” Orik, Sid, and their schoolmates cleaned up their science fair projects and headed off to lunch, where Jeremy happily joined them at their table. “It’s amazing what an apology can do,” Orik thought to himself, as he talked and laughed with his friends, both old and new.

It was a Wednesday afternoon at Eldervale Elementary, and Ms.Tabitha’s had just assigned a class project. The class was instructed to build a model of Eldervale, complete with miniature buildings, trees and a shiny blue river. Everyone was divided into pairs for the project, and Orik was very happy when he learned that Sid would be his partner. 
	“You should come to my house after school,” Sid excitedly told Orik. “We can work on our model, and you can stay for dinner! I mean, I’ll have to ask my parents first, but I think it’ll be fine.”
	“That would be great!” Orik said. After school, Orik dashed home and immediately asked his mom about going to Sid’s house. 
	“You may go. Remember to be polite and to thank Sid and her family for hosting you,” Queen Lyra reminded her son. “I or one of your grandparents will come pick you up at 8:00,” she added, ruffling Orik’s hair.
	“Yes ma’am!” Orik responded happily. He had never been to Sid’s house before, and  was excited to spend the afternoon with his friend and have dinner with her family. After changing out of his school clothes, Orik departed Eldervale Castle for Sid’s house. When he arrived, he noticed Sid and her parents awaiting him on the front step.
“Hello Mr. and Mrs. Patel,” Orik said, bowing. “Thank you for having me over.” 
“You’re very welcome, Orik,” Mr. Patel responded. 
“Come on, Orik!” Sid exclaimed. “Let’s go start our project.” Orik followed his friend, and they set out their supplies to begin building their tiny city. They were so absorbed in their project that they lost track of time. Before they knew it, the afternoon had passed.
“Sid, Orik!” called Mr. Patel. “Dinner is ready!” Orik’s stomach growled, and he realized he had become very hungry while working on the model with Sid. Sid and Orik scrambled to the kitchen, and as they entered, an odd smell greeted Orik. The food Mr. and Mrs. Patel had prepared didn’t smell like any dinner Orik had ever eaten before. His nose scrunched up before he could stop himself. 
“There you two are,” Mrs. Patel smiled. “Go wash your hands and then come have a seat.” Orik and Sid washed up and then joined Sid’s parents at the dinner table. Orik’s eyes widened at the meal set out. Vegetables he didn’t recognize floated in a soupy green dish. A basket held strange, flat bread rolled into tubes. Another bowl held a yellow stew that smelled spicy and sour. 
“Yum!” Sid declared. “Thanks, Mom! Thanks, Dad.” 
“Yeah, thank you, Mr. and Mrs. Patel,” Orik echoed weakly. He gulped, unsure if he could eat this unusual food. Mrs. Patel began distributing the flat bread and serving the stews. That’s when Orik noticed that there was no silverware. Sid noticed his puzzled expression.
“Do it like this, Orik” she said, demonstrating how to scoop up the stew with a piece of flat bread. 
“Oh, thanks,” said Orik, attempting to do the same without much success. While Sid and her parents contentedly ate their meals, Orik picked at his food. He did take a few small nibbles, and discovered that he didn’t actually mind the taste, but just couldn’t understand why they would use flat bread to eat it instead of utensils like his family used. 
After dinner, as Sid and Orik were washing the dishes, a knock sounded at the door. It was Grandmother Elga. “Your mother sent me to come pick you up, Orik,” she said, smiling at the Patels. Orik finished his task and said his goodbyes, thanking Mr. and Mrs. Patel again for dinner. 
“How was your afternoon at Sid’s?” Grandmother Elga asked as she and Orik walked home.
“Well, our model of Eldervale is starting to look really cool. But…” he said before pausing. “Sid’s family eats really strange food! And they don’t use silverware. They eat with bread, and it’s super weird.”
Grandmother Elga looked at Orik with surprise. “Now, Orik,” she said. “It isn’t polite to say things like that about the traditions of others. Just because Sid and her family do things differently from ours doesn’t mean they’re ‘weird.’”
“I guess not,” Orik responded, but Grandmother Elga could see that he was unconvinced.
“You know,” she said. “This reminds me of when I was newly married to your Grandfather. I was so excited to move to his city and become the queen! But once I moved, I found out that everyone there did things differently than in my hometown. People bowed to each other instead of shaking hands. They ate strange things I had never seen before, like chickpea soup and gooseberry pudding. And even the clothes they wore were unusual!” Grandmother Elga paused, lost in her memories. Then, a smile spread across her face. “But I learned to appreciate the new traditions once I realized they were only different, and not bad. In fact, I learned to love some of the strange new foods, like your Grandfather Ulrick’s turnip pie.”
“Turnip pie? That’s one of my favorites!” Orik said, amazed by the thought of his grandmother once thinking that one of their family recipes was strange.
“Yes,” Grandmother Elga chuckled. “You might say I thought turnip pie was weird at first. But once I learned that it was a family recipe that had been passed down through generations, I gave it a second chance, and discovered that I actually liked it.” 
“Huh,” Orik mused. Perhaps he had been too quick to judge Sid’s food and traditions. By now, Orik and Grandmother Elga had reached Eldervale Castle. “Thank you, Grandmother,” he said, giving her a hug. “I love to hear your stories about the past.” 
“You’re very welcome, Orik,” she said. 
The next day at school, Orik sat with Sid during lunch. He saw that she had brought leftovers from home for lunch -- soupy green vegetables, yellow stew, and that interesting flat bread. 
“That’s what we had for dinner last night,” Orik said. “By any chance, is that a family recipe?”
“Actually, it is. I’ve been eating this ever since I could remember. I think it came from my grandmother on my dad’s side,” Sid explained.
“Can you show me again how you use the flat bread to eat? I had never tried that before, and I think it’s so interesting,” Orik asked. Sid went on to explain more about the dishes and her family’s food traditions to Orik. He learned that Sid’s mom and dad had brought the recipes and customs with them from their hometown when they moved to Eldervale. After Sid’s explanation, the Patels’ dinner customs didn’t seem quite so strange anymore. “Neat,” Orik said. “Thanks again for having me over yesterday. Hey, do you want to come to my house today? We can finish our model city, and then you could stay for dinner with my family!”
“Sure, I’d love to!” Sid beamed. After school, Sid came to Orik’s house, where they finished their model project by painting it and adding tiny clay figurines of their class and their families. “It looks great,” Sid declared, to which Orik agreed. Since it was still only mid-afternoon, the two friends went outside to play in the garden. 
Soon enough, it was dinner time, and Queen Lyra called them in to wash up. They washed their hands and took their seats at the table with Orik’s parents and grandparents.
“Thank you for having me for dinner, Mr. and Mrs. Brighthand,” Sid said to the adults. 
“We’re glad to have you, Sid,” responded Queen Lyra. Just then, a delicious smell hit Orik’s nose as Mr. Myron walked in with a steaming dish. It was turnip pie, fresh out of the oven! 
“Oh YUM!” Orik said. “Turnip pie is my favorite! Thank you, Mr. Myron.”
“Turnip...pie?” Sid asked, with a bewildered face. 
“Yes,” said Orik. “I know it sounds kind of strange. It’s a recipe that has been passed down for generations in our family. I hope you like it, but if not, that’s okay, too.” Orik caught his Grandmother’s eye, who smiled at him with a twinkle in her eye. Orik then explained to Sid how his family paused before each meal to be thankful for the food and those who prepared it. The Brighthands and Sid were quiet for a moment as Grandfather Ulrick recited a poem of gratitude. After this moment of thankfulness, Grandmother Elga served the turnip pie. 
Sid nervously looked at her plate, and Orik could tell that she was feeling the same way he did at the Patel’s house the night before. Slowly, Sid picked up her fork and took a bite of the pie. She chewed for a moment before her expression turned from nervous to relieved. “This is delicious!” she said. “It’s not like anything I’ve ever tried before, but it’s great! I always love trying new foods and learning about other families’ traditions.” 
Orik smiled at his friend as he dug into his own slice of pie. “Sid is so open to trying new things,” Orik thought to himself.  “I’m so glad you like it!” Orik told Sid. “If you want, we can share the recipe with you.”
“Great! And I can share my family recipe with you!” Sid responded. 
“It’s a deal,” Orik said with a smile, happy to have a friend like Sid to encourage him to try new things and step out of his comfort zone. 

